My name is Rebecca Rudderham.
I am the principal at Fundy Middle
and High School.
So PLCs professional learning communities
at Fundy Middle and High School.
The we have structured it
in such a way that they are
schedule staff are scheduled to meet twice
every month.
And during these scheduled times they
our staff discuss the school improvement
plan initiatives that they want
to move forward with, or they will discuss
content based,
planning for for our school.
So it entails these structured,
meeting times in place
as well as they meet all the time.
And the staff rooms, lots of informal
conversations about student learning,
lots of excitement about upcoming plans
and improvement for our school.
I think it's extremely
important that, that
the, the roll
out of it is, done
in such a way that you, you get staff
Buy-In and they recognize the importance
of working as a team.
And I think that's
what's the most exciting part about,
the initiative that we're involved in
right now with the middle school pilot
is that with through the math momentum,
our, our teams, have
gathered together,
they have seen the what what working
as a group can actually do it
and how it how it, eases
the planning phase, how you can actually,
gauge the achievement of the kids.
You can see the data
that the kids are engaged and they're
excited about learning new concepts.
So this particular, initiative
has allowed us to get some more buy in.
And the staff does seem to be really,
really excited about working together
as a team and and recognizing the ease
how how it can make planning easier.
We've really kind of,
opted to go in this direction
because we recognize
that we were meeting as teams.
But we may not have been using it
as effectively as possible.
We weren't necessarily
looking at the data.
like taking our, using our time
to which we came together
with a, specific intent.
There was lots of planning
that was being done kind of in silos.
But then with this particular,
initiative, we we really committed
to coming together as a group and with,
with a, with a target, with a goal.
And ultimately we're hoping that or at,
we're,
we want to see this kind of grow,
with all our other,
PLCs and that other PLCs
can recognize that.
Hey, look what's happening
with the math group.
We could do that in English.
We can do that
in science and social studies
and eventually lead into hopefully
cross-curricular some more, solid
cross-curricular
planning it at the middle school level,
you have to have a champion
that one person to really organize.
I've been blessed that
the team that we are working
with right now at the middle
school is solid.
They all seem to really like each other
and they are committed.
They want to do this.
They and we have one, or 2
or 3 actually people
who are really kind of driving it forward.
And what ultimately has happened
is that through this,
I'm noticing more and more of our staff
stepping up to take a leadership role
because it's exciting them.
So one person to run the charge
and then slowly people will start
to, recognize that it's it's
worth it and it's valuable.
And we will see.
I suspect we'll see
lots of cool things happening in the fall.
It's been a fantastic experience.
I think we've really, really valued,
valued, the time put into,
the middle school model,
as we were kind of stuck in a, in a time
where we were doing a lot of,
many high school.
So it's been it's been a great experience.